Happy birthday to my dear wife Sara. Thank you for all that you do for the people of Israel, for our family, and for me

In recent days, Hamas terrorists have fired hundreds of rockets at Israel's civilians. No other country lives under such a threat, and no country would accept such a threat. Israel will not tolerate the firing of rockets on our cities and towns. We have therefore significantly expanded our operations against Hamas and the other terrorist organizations in Gaza. This comes after our repeated efforts to restore calm were met with increased Hamas rocket fire. Israel is not eager for war, but the security of our citizens is our primary consideration. Israel targets Hamas terrorists and not innocent civilians. By contrast, Hamas targets Israeli civilians while hiding behind Palestinian civilians. Hamas, therefore, bears full responsibility for any harm that comes to Israeli and Palestinian civilians alike. We are determined to give our citizens the safety and security they deserve

Israel is not bound by this deal with Iran because Iran continues to seek our destruction. We will always defend ourselves

Thank you - for the 1.3 million Facebook friends. We'll be in touch

This Thursday I will speak to the UN General Assembly. The world needs to know how the citizens of Israel feel about the nuclear agreement with Iran and what we expect from the international community in the wake of this agreement

Today in Jerusalem a Palestinian terrorist brutally stabbed a policeman. On Friday a Palestinian terrorist shot dead an Israeli citizen. Not only has the Palestinian Authority refused to condemn these acts of violence, it continues unabashedly with its campaign of incitement against Israel and Israel's civilians. Official Palestinian propagation of violence and hatred are par for the course. It must be unequivocally condemned by all those who seek to advance peace. Peace will only come from direct negotiations between the parties, without preconditions. It will not come from UN resolutions that are sought to be imposed from the outside

Meeting of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu with French President Franois Hollande in Paris.

Canadian Prime Minister Harper this evening at the Israeli Parliament: "Through fire and water, Canada will stand with you

This was the scene in Tehran last Friday. Demonstrators burned American and Israeli flags. Crowds yelled "Death to America! Death to Israel!" And who was marching in the front? Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. Meanwhile, in Vienna, world powers are conceding more and more to Iran. They are conceding even on issues that had been marked as red lines in the Lausanne framework, which was a bad deal in its own right. Iran does not hide its intentions. It continues its murderous aggression, even against those with whom it is negotiating. Perhaps there are some world powers who are prepared to accept an Iran that calls for the destruction of Israel. Israel will never accept this

How does the United Nations react to Iranian calls for the destruction of Israel? SILENCE. Share this if you refuse to be silent

We are in the third day of Operation Protective Edge. While the campaign has gone as planned further stages yet await us. We have struck hard at Hamas and the terrorists and as long as the campaign continues we will strike at them harder.  I would like to thank the IDF, ISA, and the security services for their professional, dedicated and precise actions, and express the appreciation of all Israelis. They are making every effort to avoid hitting civilians and innocents are hit it is because Hamas is maliciously hiding behind Palestinian civilians. As of now, the IDF, ISA and other security services have successfully foiled many attempted attacks against Israeli citizens but a tough, complex and complicated campaign yet awaits us. Therefore, I call on all Israelis to continue to show the strength that you have shown in these days and hours.  This civilian fortitude is a main component of our ability to continue operations until we finish the work of restoring quiet and security to Israel's cities. The most important thing for us, for all of us, is to guard the lives of all Israelis and we are all working together to this end

The alternative to this bad deal is not war. The alternative is a better deal that would roll back Iran's military nuclear program and tie the easing of restrictions on Iran's nuclear program to changes in Iran's behavior

It's time for the world to condemn terrorism against Israel in the same manner that it condemns terrorism in France and anywhere else in the world

The State of Israel bows its head on the passing of former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. Ariel Sharon played a central role in the struggle for the security of the State of Israel over all its years.  He was, first and foremost, a courageous fighter and an outstanding general, and was among the IDF's greatest commanders.  From his youth, he served the people of Israel on the battlefield. He did so as a soldier in the War of Independence, a commander in the Sinai campaign and the Six Day War, and up to his decisive role in the battle over the Suez Canal that led to the turning point in the Yom Kippur War.  He established Unit 101 and took the initiative in the war against terrorism, which became a central pillar of the State of Israel.  Upon leaving the military, he continued to work on behalf of the people of Israel both in his many government roles and as the 11th prime minister of the State of Israel.  His memory will be enshrined forever in the heart of the nation

Israel stands in solidarity with the United States following Thursday's attack that claimed the lives of four Marines. On behalf of the people and government of Israel, I extend our deepest sympathies to the families of the victims and wish a speedy and full recovery to the wounded

This afternoon my wife Sara and I had a lovely visit to Mount Vernon, the home of George Washington. Today I would also like to wish all who served in the United States Armed Forces a Happy Veterans Day. I salute you

Government and people of Israel stand with the United States of America in marking 14 years since the terrorist attacks of 9/11. As we remember those who perished, we remain committed to fighting the forces of militant Islam that have caused so much death and destruction both before and since that terrible day. Our commitment is matched only by our conviction that we will prevail

On this day, on behalf of the Jewish people,  :I say to all those who have sought and still seek to destroy us  You have failed and you will fail

I am speaking now about the security situation in Israel. I will address the lies that the Palestinian Authority continues to tell

This is a black day for the UN. Instead of highlighting the fact that Hamas made hostages of Gazas children when it fired at Israel from preschools, and dug tunnels towards Israeli preschools, the UN has again chosen to reproach Israel that held itself to the highest moral standards in combat, as was determined just this past week by a group of senior American and European generals. At the same time, Hamas - terror organization - is awarded immunity by the UN, even though it has been proven beyond any doubt that it committed war crimes by firing from hospitals, mosques and from within UN facilities. It turns out there is no limit to hypocrisy

The upcoming election offers an important contrast between left and right. We must focus on the security of our great nation. Please watch my latest TV commercial, "Babysitter." Consider clicking SHARE to let others see it

We are determined to maintain quiet in the south. We will do so by a policy of preventive action and strong reaction against those who try to harm us or who harm us. I suggest that Hamas take our policy into account

Ahead of Israel's upcoming 66th Independence Day next week, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, today, visited the staffs of the security services of the State of Israel, including the Mossad, the ISA, the IDF and the Atomic Energy Commission. Prime Minister Netanyahu thanked the men and women of the security services for their work and noted that Israel can celebrate its independence thanks to the dedicated personnel in the security establishment who work day and night so that the State of Israel can stand strong in the face of the threats around us

I am now leaving on an important trip to the US where I will meet with President Barack Obama. We will discuss the Iranian issue and the diplomatic process. I will stand steadfast on the State of Israel's vital interests, especially the security of Israel's citizens. In recent years the State of Israel has been under various pressures. We have rejected them in the face of the unprecedented storm and unrest in the region and are maintaining stability and security. This is what has been and what will be

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made today the following remarks while touring the sports complex being built in Jerusalem: "Today, not far from here, in the Palestinian Authority, they are marking what they call Nakba Day. They stand silent in order to commemorate the disaster of the establishment of Israel, the state of the Jewish People. They educate their children, with endless propaganda, that the State of Israel needs to disappear. We have many responses to this. The first response is that we are continuing to build up our state and our united capital, Jerusalem. We will also give another response to the Nakba: We will pass the nationality law that makes it clear to the entire world that Israel is the state of the Jewish People

The greatest danger to humanity would be to let extremists have nuclear weapons

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sharply condemns Abu Mazen's condolence letter to the family of Yehuda Glick's would-be assassin. "When we are trying to calm the situation, Abu Mazen sends condolences over the death of one who tried to perpetrate a reprehensible murder. The time has come for the international community to condemn him for such actions," the Prime Minister said

Live broadcast: Watch my speech to the UN General Assembly

39 years of longing. Yoni, my beloved brother and eternal hero, I miss you every day

We are constantly fighting ISIS, Jabhat - Al Nusra and other terrorist organizations. Yesterday an Israeli civilian crossed our border in the Golan Heights into Syria to join the ranks of the enemy. We will act to nullify his citizenship. That is what is done in any such case. Whoever joins the ranks of the enemy to fight against Israel, will not be an Israeli citizen

Iran, the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, is squeezing more and more concessions from world powers meeting in Vienna. I have no doubt that Iran will use some of the hundreds of billions of dollars that it will receive in sanctions relief in order to expand its global terror network. Why should we expect otherwise? Iran's ultimate goal is not to become part of the community of nations, but to take over the world.

Against all odds:a great victory for the Likud. A major victory for the people of Israel

Last night I presented Michael Douglas with the 2015 Genesis Prize. Michael won the prize not only because of his professional achievements, but also because of his connection to Jewish tradition, his love for the Jewish people, and his passion for the Jewish state. Michael is a true friend of Israel. He has used his public influence to take a clear stand against anti-Semitism, and he has correctly described the BDS movement as an "ugly cancer." Indeed, rather than suppressing his Jewish identity, Michael has embraced it  and encouraged his family to do the same. I was moved by his son Dylan's desire to celebrate his Bar Mitzvah in Israel, and I look forward to welcoming the entire family again to Jerusalem when his daughter Carys celebrates her Bat Mitzvah here. Michael plans to direct his prize money to organizations that promote inclusiveness and diversity in Judaism. I want to emphasize: As Prime Minister of Israel, I'm committed to strengthening the unity of the Jewish people, and I will continue to reject any attempt to divide the Jewish people and to delegitimize any Jewish community. Everyone is welcome in Israel  Reform, Conservative, Orthodox alike. Everyone. Michael, I applaud you for all of your accomplishments, and for the impact you will certainly have in the years ahead in fulfilling your role as a Genesis Laureate. I applaud you for coming to Jerusalem, our capital for 3,000 years, where we are shaping our future while remembering our past. I applaud you  and I think this is the most important thing  for setting an example to Jews everywhere to stand tall and stand proud. Shabbat shalom.

The deal with Iran was a dream deal for Iran but a nightmare deal for the world.

When you are willing to make an agreement at any cost, this is the result. From the initial reports we can already conclude that this agreement is an historic mistake for the world.  Far-reaching concessions have been made in all areas that were supposed to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons capability. In addition, Iran will receive hundreds of billions of dollars with which it can fuel its terror machine and its expansion and aggression throughout the Middle East and across the globe.  One cannot prevent an agreement when the negotiators are willing to make more and more concessions to those who, even during the talks, keep chanting: 'Death to America.'  We knew very well that the desire to sign an agreement was stronger than anything, and therefore we did not commit to preventing an agreement. We did commit to preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, and this commitment still stands

Funds that were intended to building kindergartens for Gaza's children were instead used by Hamas to build tunnels of terror to strike at Israeli kindergartens

The Iranian weapons ship reached Israel last night. The operation to seize the ship had two goals: Preventing the delivery of deadly weapons to terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip, which would have directly endangered Israel's citizens, and exposing the true face of Iran, which was behind this weapons shipment. Iran completely denies its involvement; it is lying in the most brazen manner. We will present evidence of this tomorrow and later. I call this to the attention of Catherine Ashton, who is now visiting Tehran. I would like to ask her if she asked her Iranian hosts about this shipment of weapons for terrorist organizations, and if not, why not. Nobody has the right to ignore the true and murderous actions of the regime in Tehran. I think that it would be proper for the international community to give its opinion regarding Iran's true policy, not its propaganda

We are changing our policy and declaring war against those who throw stones and firebombs. We will give our soldiers and police officers the tools that they need in order to implement this new policy as soon as possible

To the Israeli police officers and security forces in the field: You have my full backing and the full backing of the people of Israel to take decisive action in order to save lives and to protect yourselves. Thank you all for watching over us. Take care of yourselves

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu convened a security consultation this afternoon at Israel Police headquarters in Jerusalem. Prime Minister Netanyahu was briefed on last night's vehicular terrorist attack in Jerusalem and on the disturbances that have occurred in Jerusalem in recent months. He directed that sovereignty be asserted in all parts of the city via the stationing of additional forces throughout the city. Prime Minister Netanyahu met with the Jerusalem District police officer who shot the terrorist and asked to send his condolences to the family of three-month-old Chaya Zissel Braun who was murdered in the attack: "On behalf of the entire nation, I send condolences to the family of this pure baby and my wishes for a quick and full recovery to those who were wounded." Prime Minister Netanyahu added, "United Jerusalem was - and will remain - Israel's eternal capital. All attempts to attack its residents will be met with a very sharp reaction; we will restore quiet and security to Jerusalem. To this end I have directed that reinforcements be brought in, including additional Border Police units, which are moving in today, as well as with lookouts, intelligence and enforcement measures. These, along with other steps that I will not detail here, can and will restore quiet to the capital. I rely on the people sitting here. We will support the Israel Police and give it whatever reinforcements and capabilities it needs to carry out this mission. We have proven that with determination and patience we can achieve these goals in all parts of the State of Israel. Not only is Jerusalem under terrorist attack but other capitals and cities around the world are as well. But the attacks in Jerusalem are supported by Palestinian Authority Chairman Abu Mazen, who both extols the murderers and embraces the organization that the terrorists belong to, Hamas. And against these actions by the Palestinian Authority Chairman, we find international weakness; they are not prepared to utter so much as a word of criticism against him. We have no such weakness. We will insist on our rights and on our obligation to defend our capital. We will do strongly - and we will win."

How much light Kaiya has brought into our home! If you are thinking of getting a canine, find an adult dog to rescue. You won't regret it

The bottom line of this very bad deal is exactly what Iran's President Rouhani said today: "The international community is removing the sanctions and Iran is keeping its nuclear program." By not dismantling Iran's nuclear program, in a decade this deal will give an unreformed, unrepentant and far richer terrorist regime the capacity to produce many nuclear bombs, in fact an entire nuclear arsenal with the means to deliver it. What a stunning historic mistake!  Do you agree? Share my full statement. The world needs to know

This morning, 232 new immigrants arrived in Israel from the United States on an El Al charter flight organized by Nefesh B'Nefesh, in cooperation with the Ministry of Immigrant Absorption and the Jewish Agency for Israel. From this group, 59 young people will be joining the Israel Defense Forces. To the soon-to-be soldiers: I salute you. To all the new citizens: Welcome home. The people of Israel are so proud of you.

We have only one land  the land of Israel. We are guarding it and thwarting terror attacks, as we did yesterday in Jenin. We are responding to all fire on our territory, in ways seen and in ways unseen. My policy against terrorism is clear: zero restraint, zero let-up, zero tolerance for terrorism

WATCH AND SHARE:  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was interviewed today by CBS's Face The Nation and FOX News Sunday, regarding operation "Protective Edge

The best way to guarantee peace is to be strong. And thats what the people of Israel expect me to do  to stand strong against criticism, against pressure, stand strong to secure the future of the one and only Jewish state

Two things that happened today: 1. Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei tweeted a video calling for the destruction of Israel, a UN member state. 2. The UN Security Council voted to lift sanctions on Iran. The hypocrisy knows no bounds. The best way to fight this hypocrisy is to tell the truth in a strong and unified manner

I said to the Jewish Federations' General Assembly: The only way to fight lies is by telling the truth. We have nothing to be ashamed of. Stand proud and tell the truth about Israel

There are elements in Europe that rush to condemn the construction of a flat in Jerusalem but do not rush to condemn  or offer only weak condemnations of  the murder of Jews here or in Europe itself and, even worse, welcome unity with a terrorist element such as Hamas, which calls for the destruction of the State of Israel.  We oppose such hypocrisy, we protest against it, we will continue to always state the truth, we will continue to fight terrorism and we will continue to build up our state

SHARE THIS: These are the employees of an Israeli pharmaceutical company in Ashdod. This company manufactures medicine that is transferred to the Gaza Strip, from which rockets are fired at them